dpkg is also used to install using local files
apt-get is used to install using remote files

    They came up with a way to "store" the files of an application in a "package" so that it can be easily installed. So, the Deb package (.deb extension file) was born.

        A .deb file contains the files needed by an application to run, as well as (I like to call it) "meta-data" that holds other information, such as the names of the dependencies the application needs. If you want to see the contents of a .deb file, you can use the command dpkg -c packageName.deb, and if you want to see this "meta-data" information, use the command dpkg -I pacakgeName.deb (and if you want to only see the dependencies, do dpkg -I packageName.deb | grep Depends).

    They needed a tool to install these .deb files, so they came up with the dpkg tool. This tool, however, will just install the .deb file, but will not install its dependencies because it doesn't have those files and it does not have access to "repositories" to go pull the dependencies from.
    Then, they came up with apt-get, which automates the problems in the previous point. Underneath the hood, apt-get is basically dpkg (I like to think of it as apt-get being a front-end for dpkg), but a clever one that will look for the dependencies and install them. It even looks at the currently installed dependencies and determines ones that are not being used by any other packages, and will inform you that you can remove them.

aptitude then came along. It uses the libraries apt-get uses and actually has an interactive UI (user interface). If you want to see this UI, simply type aptitude in the terminal. That's aptitude. It leverages the libraries to provide more options and perks than apt-get. For example, aptitude will automatically remove eligible packages, while apt-get needs a separate command to do so. But, in the end, doing sudo aptitude install packageName.deb should at least be the same as sudo apt-get install packageName.deb. There might be subtle differences here and there that I do not know about, but they will both look for the dependencies and do all that stuff. You can read the answer here for more information on the differences between aptitude and apt-get.