


===============Desktop environemt=================
Windows XP: Luna
From Windows Vista onward: Aero
Unix-like operating systems: KDE, GNOME




From the bottom up:  

    Xorg, XFree86 and X11 are display servers. This creates the graphical environment.
	
    [gkx]dm (and others) are display managers (login managers, XDMCP, X Display Manager Control Protocol). It is typically a graphical user interface that is displayed at the end of the boot process in place of the default shell. This is the first X program run by the system if the system (not the user) is starting X and allows you to log on to the local system, or network systems. (XDM, KDM, GDM, Lightdm). The X display managers are for managing logins and sessions on an X server. Their design is such that remote and local logins are handled equally well. The user enters her username and password; then the session is started, transferring control from the display manager to the user’s session manager.
	Default display manager:
	- The Xorg system includes by default the Xorg Display Manager or xdm. The name of the simple graphical login manager that comes with a vanilla X11 installation is xdm.
	- The gdm is associated with the GNOME Desktop
	- The kdm is associated with the KDE Desktop 
	- lightdm is the display manager that is default in Ubuntu distributions.
	KDM and GDM add many features when comparing to xdm, one of which is a menu that enables users to select their desktop environment or window manager when they log in rather than specifying it in a configuration file
	
	A display manager is started like any other system service by the init system
    
	
	
	
	A window manager (WM) is system software that controls the placement and appearance of windows within a windowing system in a graphical user interface (GUI). It can be part of a desktop environment (DE) or be used standalone. A window manager controls the placement and decoration of windows. That is, the window border and controls are the decoration. Some of these are stand alone (WindowMaker, sawfish, fvwm, etc). Some depend on an accompanying desktop environment. e.g: Enlightenment, Afterstep, FVWM, Fluxbox, IceWM, etc.
	
	Windows in X are created and managed by several programs. One of
    these, the window manager, handles the window’s borders and enables
    you to drag the window around the screen and resize it. Some xwininfo
    statistics relate to the window excluding the window manager’s elements,
    but others include these elements. Options such as -frame and -wm can
    modify this output or display information on the window manager’s features specifically.
	
	
	
	
    
	A desktop environment such as XFCE, KDE or GNOME are a suite of applications designed to integrate well with each other to provide a consistent experience.
	KDE is probably the more "Windows-like" desktop. Before you make any decisions, I would strongly suggest experimenting with CentOS as well as some of the distros that offer live-CDs (Ubunto (Gnome), Kubuntu (KDE), etc.). You may decide that you'd rather not run CentOS as a desktop distro and confine it to the server room. Whatever you decide, develop a rock solid roll-out and training plan and don't try to accomplish everything at once.

Before you make any decisions, I would strongly suggest experimenting with CentOS as well as some of the distros that offer live-CDs (Ubunto (Gnome), Kubuntu (KDE)

In theory (and mostly so in practice) any of those components are interchangeable. You can run kmail using GNOME with WindowMaker on Xorg.
