xorg is an implementation of X 



Usually, you don't need the xorg.conf any more.

If you need to configure some devices anyway, you can do so by placing a file in the /usr/lib/X11/xorg.conf.d/ (Ubuntu 10.04) or /usr/share/X11/xorg.conf.d/ (since Ubuntu 10.10). There are some files in this directory already. 


The xorg.conf does not exist by default any more. You CAN create one though.

Boot into recovery mode and select Root Shell. Then run:

X -configure

Then:

cp /root/xorg.conf.new /etc/X11/xorg.conf

Reboot and you can edit the new Xorg.conf.



Although X is by far the dominant GUI for Linux, several implementations of X
are available:
XFree86 The dominant X server in Linux until 2004 was XFree86 (www.xfree86.org).
This open-source server supports a wide array of video cards and input devices, and most
Linux software was originally designed with XFree86 in mind. As we write, the most
recent version is 4.8.0. Significant changes occurred between version 3.3.6 and the 4.x
series, and some older utilities work only with 3.3.6 and earlier versions of XFree86.
Although a tiny number of elderly systems must run XFree86 3.3.6 or earlier for driver
support reasons, most systems today run XFree86 4.x or X.org-X11. The latter is more
common on distributions released since 2004.

X.org-X11 In 2004, most Linux distributions shifted from XFree86 to X.org-X11 because
of licensing changes to XFree86. X.org-X11 6.7.0 was based on XFree86 4.3.99, but it has
been developed independently up to the current version, 7.7. Because X.org-X11 is based
on XFree86, the two are virtually identical in most important respects. One significant
difference is the name of the configuration file and another is the default location for fonts.
Subsequent sections of this chapter point out these differences. You can learn more at
www.x.org/wiki/.

Accelerated-X The commercial Accelerated-X server from Xi Graphics (www.xig.
com) is an alternative to the open-source XFree86 and X.org-X11. In practice, running
Accelerated-X is seldom necessary, but if you have problems getting your video card
working, you may want to look into Accelerated-X; its driver base is independent of the
more popular open-source choices, so it’s possible that you’ll have better luck with it. The
Accelerated-X configuration tools and files are completely different from those described
later in this chapter in “Methods of Configuring X” and “X Configuration Options,” so
you’ll need to consult its documentation for help. The rest of this chapter’s topics still apply
to Accelerated-X.

In practice, it’s usually easiest to stick with whatever X server your distribution provides.
For modern distributions, this is most often X.org-X11.
