Why Partition? The first issue with partitioning is the question of why you should do it. The answer is that
partitioning provides a variety of advantages, including the following:

Multiple-OS Support
Partitioning enables you to keep the data for different OSs separate.
In fact, many OSs can’t easily coexist on the same partition because they don’t support
each other’s primary filesystems. This feature is obviously important mainly if you want
the computer to boot multiple OSs. It can also be handy to help maintain an emergency
system—you can install a single OS twice, using the second installation as an emergency
maintenance tool for the first in case problems develop.

Filesystem Choice
By partitioning your disk, you can use different filesystems—data
structures designed to hold all of the files on a partition—on each partition. Perhaps
one filesystem is faster than another and so it is important for time-critical or frequently
accessed files, but another may provide accounting or backup features you want to use for
users’ data files.

Disk Space Management
By partitioning your disk, you can lock certain sets of files into a
fixed space. For instance, if you restrict users to storing files on one or two partitions, they
can fill those partitions without causing problems on other partitions, such as system partitions. This feature can help keep your system from crashing if space runs out. On the other
hand, if you get the partition sizes wrong, you can run out of disk space on just one partition much sooner than would be the case if you’d used fewer partitions.

Disk Error Protection
Disks sometimes develop problems. These problems can be the
result of bad hardware or errors that creep into the filesystems. In either case, splitting a
disk into partitions provides some protection against such problems. If data structures on
one partition become corrupted, the errors affect only the files on that partition. This separation can therefore protect data on other partitions and simplify data recovery.

Security
You can use different security-related mount options on different partitions. For
instance, you might mount a partition that holds critical system files in read-only mode,
preventing users from writing to that partition. Linux’s file security options should provide
similar protection, but taking advantage of Linux filesystem mount options provides redundancy that can be helpful in case of an error in setting up file or directory permissions.

Backup
Some backup tools work best on whole partitions. By keeping partitions small,
you may be able to back up more easily than you could if your partitions were large.
In practice, most Linux computers use several partitions, although precisely how
the system is partitioned varies from one computer to another. (The upcoming section
“Common Partitions and Filesystem Layouts” describes some possibilities.)