Firmware, which is the lowest-level software that runs on a computer. A computer's firmware begins the boot process and configures certain hardware devices. This chapter then moves on to expansion cards and USB devices.

Many hardware devices include firmware, so any given computer can have many types
of firmware installed?for the motherboard, for a plug-in disk controller, for network
interfaces, and so on. The most important firmware, though, is installed on the computer’s
motherboard. This firmware initializes the motherboard’s hardware and controls the boot
process. In the past, the vast majority of x86- and x86-64-based computers have used a
type of firmware known as the Basic Input/Output System (BIOS). Beginning in 2011,
though, a new type of firmware, known as the Extensible Firmware Interface (EFI) or the
Unified EFI (UEFI), has become all but standard on new computers. Some older computers
also use EFI. Despite the fact that technically EFI isn’t a BIOS, most manufacturers refer
to it by that name in their documentation. The exam objectives refer to the BIOS, but not
to EFI. Nonetheless, in the real world, you’re likely to encounter EFI on newer computers.
The differences between BIOS and EFI are particularly important in booting the computer,
as described in Chapter 5. For many of the setup tasks described in this chapter, the two
types of firmware behave very similarly; although EFI implementations sometimes provide
flashier graphical user interfaces, most BIOSs, and some EFIs, provide only text-mode
user interfaces.

The motherboard’s firmware resides in electronically erasable programmable read-only
memory (EEPROM), aka flash memory. When you turn on a computer, the firmware
performs a power-on self-test (POST), initializes hardware to a known operational state,
loads the boot loader from the boot device (typically the first hard disk), and passes control
to the boot loader, which in turn loads the OS.
Historically, an additional purpose of a BIOS was to provide fundamental input/
output (I/O) services to the operating system and application programs, insulating them
from hardware changes. Although the Linux kernel uses the BIOS to collect information about the hardware, once Linux is running, it doesn’t use BIOS services for I/O. In
theory, the OS can use some EFI services, but as of the 3.5.0 kernel, Linux takes advantage of few of these EFI features. Linux system administrators require a basic understanding of the BIOS or EFI because of the key role it plays in configuring hardware
and in booting.